Jim Sidler - VP Engineering at Aula      body, h1 { font-family: "Raleway", sans-serif } body, html { height: 100% } .bgimg { min-height: 100%; background-color: black; }    window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || \[\]; function gtag() { dataLayer.push(arguments); } gtag('js', new Date()); gtag('config', 'UA-10763510-1');

Hello Aula!
===========

I'm Jim Sidler, VP of Engineering at Aula.

* * *

I know that might be incredibly audacious and I know you are very busy so I will keep this concise. I have already applied to the position via remoteok.io but I haven't been able to shake the feeling that I am the perfect fit for the role and really want to stand out from the crowd. The top three reasons that I will help Aula excel are my ability to foster community, my deep technical background and my experience being remote.

My ability to foster community is comprised of three complimentary skills that are all at play on different levels at any given time. First is my emotional aptitude to read and care about people. In every company I have been a part of, my ability to drum up camaraderie and grow the culture is due to my ability to empathize with engineers of all levels. Recently I participated in an engineering-wide personality test exercise where everyone took the DiSC test. I was the only one to get the 'i' result and everyone laughed because it clarified for everyone why I stood out as the obvious builder of the community. Second is my curiosity toward new tech and aligning what I learn with each engineer that I think might resonate. Typically the engineer has already heard of the subject and loves that I thought of them when I learned of it. I suppose the third ability I have combines the first two mentioned, in a way, as I strive for collaboration as I believe that is when you reach the best possible outcome. Collaborating with highly intelligent people that I get to know through empathy and curiosity on technical solutions to people problems defines my ideal work environment

I've always liked puzzles and brain teasers because I love to use my brain. This has come in really handy as an engineer over the past 15 years, even as I have built a couple of community oriented software solutions myself! However, as I have been a part of teams that have come up with solutions to some hairy problems, I have come to realize that the most interesting charter I've ever been a part of is growing and nurturing a technical team. I love it and it has been some of the hardest work I've done to date. Especially when you have to break down the barrier of physical location.

Being remote is not as easy as having your tech set up to be conducive. It entails a whole lot more than keeping time zones in mind as well. Remote workers love their time to crunch through the deep thinking tasks required of engineers but, handled correctly, really do appreciate the video calls and meetings that help keep them informed and involved. In my experience, caring for remote engineers requires being critical of your time and time zones, technically adequate hardware and network setup and, most importantly, the ability to build rapport through intentional relationships. This includes finding and gradually increasing the comfort level with each engineer over time so that you get high fidelity information that is typically lost in translation via video or slack conversations. It also creates a more collaborative environment when each engineer feels well supported by their leadership.

I apologize, I tried to keep this short and I've cut so much out in an effort to communicate the 'tip of the iceberg' while respecting your time. I believe in what Aula is building and I know I would provide the value that Aula is looking for in a VP of Engineering.
